grpc/README.md, before:

# Cloud Run "Hello World" container for gRPC

This is a sample gRPC server for deployment to Cloud Run Services.
The standard health check service is implemented, and the introspection API is enabled.

## How to launch

This sample gRPC server can be launched locally as follows:

```bash
go mod download
go run main.go
```


## How to call

This sample gRPC server can be called as follows:

- Health check service
  ```bash
  $ GRPC_HEALTH_PROBE_VERSION=v0.4.13 && \
      wget -qO grpc_health_probe https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-health-probe/releases/download/${GRPC_HEALTH_PROBE_VERSION}/grpc_health_probe-linux-amd64 && \
      chmod +x grpc_health_probe
  $ ./grpc_health_probe -addr 127.0.0.1:50051
  status: SERVING
  ```

  ```bash
  $ grpcurl -plaintext localhost:50051 grpc.health.v1.Health/Check
  {
    "status": "SERVING"
  }
  ```

- Echo service
  ```bash
  $ grpcurl -plaintext -d '{"message":"gRPC"}' localhost:50051 grpc.examples.echo.Echo/UnaryEcho
  {
    "message": "gRPC"
  }
  ```

- Greeter service
  When run on the Cloud Run Services, the response would contain some information about your Google Cloud project.
  ```bash
  $ grpcurl -plaintext -d '{"name":"Tom"}' localhost:50051 helloworld.Greeter/SayHello
  {
    "message": "Hello Tom; service=<K_SERVICE>, revision=<K_REVISION, project=<PROJECT_ID>, region=<REGION>"
  }
  ```

## Deploy to Cloud Run with locally built image

```bash
$ docker buildx create --name mybuilder --use --bootstrap
$ IMAGE_TAG="us-docker.pkg.dev/${PROJECT_ID}/${REPOSITORY_NAME}/cloud-run-hello-grpc"
$ docker buildx build --push \
    --platform linux/amd64 \
    --tag $IMAGE_TAG .
$ gcloud run deploy $SERVICE --platform=managed --project=$PROJECT_ID --region=$REGION --image=$IMAGE_TAG
```

## Deploy to Cloud Run without local build

```bash
gcloud run deploy $SERVICE --platform=managed --project=$PROJECT_ID --region=$REGION --source .
```

Commit message:

Enable logging, add note on unavailability of server reflection when deployed to Cloud Run

grpc/README.md, after:

# Cloud Run "Hello World" container for gRPC

This is a sample gRPC server for deployment to Cloud Run Services.
The standard health check service is implemented, and the introspection API is enabled.

## How to launch

This sample gRPC server can be launched locally as follows:

```bash
go mod download
go run main.go
```


## How to call the gRPC server in the local environment

This sample gRPC server can be called as follows:

- Health check service
  ```bash
  $ GRPC_HEALTH_PROBE_VERSION=v0.4.13 && \
      wget -qO grpc_health_probe https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-health-probe/releases/download/${GRPC_HEALTH_PROBE_VERSION}/grpc_health_probe-linux-amd64 && \
      chmod +x grpc_health_probe
  $ ./grpc_health_probe -addr 127.0.0.1:50051
  status: SERVING
  ```

  ```bash
  $ grpcurl -plaintext localhost:50051 grpc.health.v1.Health/Check
  {
    "status": "SERVING"
  }
  ```

- Echo service
  ```bash
  $ grpcurl -plaintext -d '{"message":"gRPC"}' localhost:50051 grpc.examples.echo.Echo/UnaryEcho
  {
    "message": "gRPC"
  }
  ```

- Greeter service
  When run on the Cloud Run Services, the response would contain some information about your Google Cloud project.
  ```bash
  $ grpcurl -plaintext -d '{"name":"Tom"}' localhost:50051 helloworld.Greeter/SayHello
  {
    "message": "Hello Tom; service=<K_SERVICE>, revision=<K_REVISION, project=<PROJECT_ID>, region=<REGION>"
  }
  ```

## Deploy to Cloud Run with locally built image

```bash
$ docker buildx create --name mybuilder --use --bootstrap
$ IMAGE_TAG="us-docker.pkg.dev/${PROJECT_ID}/${REPOSITORY_NAME}/cloud-run-hello-grpc"
$ docker buildx build --push \
    --platform linux/amd64 \
    --tag $IMAGE_TAG .
$ gcloud run deploy $SERVICE --platform=managed --project=$PROJECT_ID --region=$REGION --image=$IMAGE_TAG
```

## Deploy to Cloud Run without local build

```bash
gcloud run deploy $SERVICE --platform=managed --project=$PROJECT_ID --region=$REGION --source .
```


## How to call the gRPC server deployed on Cloud Run

```bash
$ FQDN=cloud-run-hello-grpc-genlookhtq-uc.a.run.app
$ PORT=443
$ grpcurl -proto protos/echo.proto -d '{"message":"gRPC"}' $FQDN:$PORT grpc.examples.echo.Echo/UnaryEcho
{
  "message": "gRPC"
}

$ grpcurl -proto protos/helloworld.proto -d '{"name":"Tom"}' $FQDN:$PORT helloworld.Greeter/SayHello
{
  "message": "Hello Tom; service=GreeterService, revision=cloud-run-hello-grpc-00007-mew, project=magic-modules-374220, regionus-central1"
}
```

gRPC reflection requires HTTP/2 bidirectional steaming. So in order to enable gRPC reflection, it is required to connect the gRPC server via HTTP/2 over TCP (HTTP/2 cleartext or HTTP/2 without TLS aka h2c) and the gRPC server needs to support h2c connection.
Cloud Run, by default, downgrades HTTP/2 requests to HTTP/1.1, so it is necessary to disable this conversion by specifying `--use-http2` when deploying to Cloud Run.
However, the standard go library `net/http` does not expose easy configuration knobs for h2c, and correct implementation requires using the `golang.org/x/net/http2` package. Since this is beyond the scope of a basic gRPC server example, the implementation of gRPC reflection for Cloud Run deployment is dropped from this example.
Therefore, calling this gRPC server deployed on Cloud Run requires providing proto schema files as `grpccurl -proto <path_to_local_proto_file.proto> ...` even though the `-proto` option is not necessary when calling the server in the local environment.
